# Working Scripts
Collection of various programs I have written during the development of the project. 
All of these were working at the time of their development, however, the main code is the only version being maintained. 

### nD_PE_matrix:
Fortran-90 script for calculating any dimensional (D<10) any excitation (k<10) Harmonic Oscillator Potential Energy matrix.
Modified hermite polynomials are used to compute the wavefunction, and QMC Sobol Sequences (normally distributed, Beasley-Springer-Moro) are used to perform numerical integration.
Eigenvalue and matrix element convergance as a function of iteration are available. 
No external field exists, wavefunctions are orthonormal, therefore matrix elements should be either 1(diagonal), or 0, eigenvalues should be 1. 
Sobol sequences are generated using `Sobol.f90`.

### nD_s_PE_matrix:
Fortran-90 script for calculating any dimensional (D<10) any excitation (k<10) Harmonic Oscillator Potential Energy matrix.
Modified hermite polynomials are used to compute the wavefunction, and QMC Scrambled-Sobol Sequences (normally distributed, Beasley-Springer-Moro) are used to perform numerical integration.
Eigenvalue and matrix element convergance as a function of iteration are available. 
No external field exists, wavefunctions are orthonormal, therefore matrix elements should be either 1(diagonal), or 0, eigenvalues should be 1. 
Scrambled Sobol Sequences are generated using the matlab `scramble` utility, part of the `qrandset` class.
The code simply needs a datafile containing each point to be evaluated.

### 1D_HO_matrix:
Fortran-90 script for calculating a 1D Harmonic Oscilator matrix (weighted by a Gaussian). 
The code allows users to define which degree polynomial to calculate up to for the HO Matrix elements, and uses Normally Distributed Sobol Points for quasi-Monte Carlo integration. 

### 1D_s_HO_matrix:
Fortran-90 script for calculating a 1D Harmonic Oscilator matrix (weighted by a Gaussian).
The code allows users to define which degree polynomial to calculate up to for the HO Matrix elements, and uses Normally Distributed Scrambled Sobol Points for quasi-Monte Carlo integration. 
The points must be generated externally (a matlab script has been attached for doing this) see
https://www.mathworks.com/help/stats/qrandset.scramble.html for matlab details. 

### permutations:
Fortran-90 script to determine the number of permutations available in a system with a d-dimensional wavefunction and a maximum excitation constraing of Vmax (the total number of excitations in the total wavefunction). 
Input the spatial dimension and maximum excitation, output Jmax, and v(d,Jmax) containing all of the permutations. 

### MC_integration:
Fortran-90 script that uses a uniformly distributed sobol sequence (generated by Fortran) to perform Monte Carlo Integration. 
User defines a function to be evaluated within the code.

### PES_test:
Fortran-90 script that evaluates the potential energy directly from the Hessian, and using the normal mode transformations.
This test code is stripped down, and test to be sure all of hte normal mode transformation are being done accurately.
Each method should produce the same result.

# Open Source Code
The following codes are/have been used during the project.
Please see the original documentation for more details, and give proper reference to the authors. 
Many thanks to all the authors who have made these codes available, I have found them to be extremly helpful throughout this project

## Sobol.f90 
The Fortran-90 module used for Sobol Sequence Generation.
Taken from http://people.sc.fsu.edu/~jburkardt/f_src/sobol/sobol.html

## ACM Collected Algorithms
A collection of various algorithms, notably the various quasi-random sequence generators (647, 659)
Please see http://calgo.acm.org/ for source code. 

## MCQMC Wiki Page
Public Software containing MC, QMC, MCMC software for the community. 
Notably the `ssobol.f` fortran source code has been utilized for scrambled sobol sequences for MC integration. 
Please see http://roth.cs.kuleuven.be/wiki/Main_Page for the wiki page, and various resources available.
